doc/user/project/issues/due_dates.md, before:

---
stage: Plan
group: Project Management
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
---

# Due dates **(FREE)**

Due dates can be used in [issues](index.md) to keep track of deadlines and make sure features are
shipped on time. Users need at least the Reporter role
to be able to edit the due date. All users with permission to view
the issue can view the due date.

## Setting a due date

When creating an issue, select the **Due date** field to make a calendar
appear for choosing the date. To remove the date, select the date
text and delete it. The date is related to the server's time zone, not the time zone of
the user setting the due date.

![Create a due date](img/due_dates_create.png)

You can also set a due date by using the issue sidebar. Expand the
sidebar and select **Edit** to pick a due date or remove the existing one.
Changes are saved immediately.

![Edit a due date with the sidebar](img/due_dates_edit_sidebar.png)

The last way to set a due date is by using [quick actions](../quick_actions.md), directly in an issue's description or comment:

- `/due <date>`: set due date. Examples of valid `<date>` include `in 2 days`, `this Friday`, and `December 31st`.
- `/remove_due_date`: remove due date.

## Making use of due dates

You can see issues with their due dates in the issues list.
Overdue issues have their icon and date colored red.
To sort issues by their due dates, select **Due date** from the dropdown list on the right.
Issues are then sorted from the earliest due date to the latest.
To display issues with the latest due dates at the top, select **Sort direction** (**{sort-lowest}**).

Due dates also appear in your [to-do list](../../todos.md).

![Issues with due dates in the to dos](img/due_dates_todos.png)

The day before an open issue is due, an email is sent to all participants
of the issue. Like the due date, the "day before the due date" is determined by the
server's time zone.

Issues with due dates can also be exported as an iCalendar feed. The URL of the
feed can be added to calendar applications. The feed is accessible by selecting
the **Subscribe to calendar** button on the following pages:

- The **Assigned Issues** page linked on the right side of the GitLab header
- The **Project Issues** page
- The **Group Issues** page

Commit message:

Combine import, export, and subscribe options into dropdown
- This affects issues list, issues dashboard, merge requests, and
service desk

Changelog: changed

doc/user/project/issues/due_dates.md, after:

---
stage: Plan
group: Project Management
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
---

# Due dates **(FREE)**

Due dates can be used in [issues](index.md) to keep track of deadlines and make sure features are
shipped on time. Users need at least the Reporter role
to be able to edit the due date. All users with permission to view
the issue can view the due date.

## Setting a due date

When creating an issue, select the **Due date** field to make a calendar
appear for choosing the date. To remove the date, select the date
text and delete it. The date is related to the server's time zone, not the time zone of
the user setting the due date.

![Create a due date](img/due_dates_create.png)

You can also set a due date by using the issue sidebar. Expand the
sidebar and select **Edit** to pick a due date or remove the existing one.
Changes are saved immediately.

![Edit a due date with the sidebar](img/due_dates_edit_sidebar.png)

The last way to set a due date is by using [quick actions](../quick_actions.md), directly in an issue's description or comment:

- `/due <date>`: set due date. Examples of valid `<date>` include `in 2 days`, `this Friday`, and `December 31st`.
- `/remove_due_date`: remove due date.

## Making use of due dates

You can see issues with their due dates in the issues list.
Overdue issues have their icon and date colored red.
To sort issues by their due dates, select **Due date** from the dropdown list on the right.
Issues are then sorted from the earliest due date to the latest.
To display issues with the latest due dates at the top, select **Sort direction** (**{sort-lowest}**).

Due dates also appear in your [to-do list](../../todos.md).

![Issues with due dates in the to dos](img/due_dates_todos.png)

The day before an open issue is due, an email is sent to all participants
of the issue. Like the due date, the "day before the due date" is determined by the
server's time zone.

Issues with due dates can also be exported as an iCalendar feed. The URL of the
feed can be added to calendar applications. The feed is accessible by selecting
the **Subscribe to calendar** option in the  **Actions** (**{ellipsis_v}**) dropdown
list on the following pages:

- The **Assigned Issues** page linked on the right side of the GitLab header
- The **Project Issues** page
- The **Group Issues** page
