doc/api/secure_files.md, before:

---
stage: Verify
group: Pipeline Security
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
type: reference, api
---

# Project-level Secure Files API **(FREE)**

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/78227) in GitLab 14.8. [Deployed behind the `ci_secure_files` flag](../administration/feature_flags.md), disabled by default.
> - [Feature flag removed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/350748) in GitLab 15.7.

Limited to 100 secure files per project. Files must be smaller than 5 MB. Project-level Secure Files is an experimental feature developed by [GitLab Incubation Engineering](https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/engineering/incubation/).

## List project secure files

Get list of secure files in a project.

```plaintext
GET /projects/:project_id/secure_files
```

Supported attributes:

| Attribute    | Type           | Required               | Description |
|--------------|----------------|------------------------|-------------|
| `project_id` | integer/string | **{check-circle}** Yes | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](rest/index.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user. |

Example request:

```shell
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/1/secure_files"
```

Example response:

```json
[
    {
        "id": 1,
        "name": "myfile.jks",
        "checksum": "16630b189ab34b2e3504f4758e1054d2e478deda510b2b08cc0ef38d12e80aac",
        "checksum_algorithm": "sha256",
        "created_at": "2022-02-22T22:22:22.222Z",
        "expires_at": null,
        "metadata": null
    },
    {
        "id": 2,
        "name": "myfile.cer",
        "checksum": "16630b189ab34b2e3504f4758e1054d2e478deda510b2b08cc0ef38d12e80aa2",
        "checksum_algorithm": "sha256",
        "created_at": "2022-02-22T22:22:22.222Z",
        "expires_at": "2022-09-21T14:56:00.000Z",
        "metadata": {
            "id":"75949910542696343243264405377658443914",
            "issuer": {
                "C":"US",
                "O":"Apple Inc.",
                "CN":"Apple Worldwide Developer Relations Certification Authority",
                "OU":"G3"
            },
            "subject": {
                "C":"US",
                "O":"Organization Name",
                "CN":"Apple Distribution: Organization Name (ABC123XYZ)",
                "OU":"ABC123XYZ",
                "UID":"ABC123XYZ"
            },
            "expires_at":"2022-09-21T14:56:00.000Z"
        }
    }
]
```

## Show secure file details

Get the details of a specific secure file in a project.

```plaintext
GET /projects/:project_id/secure_files/:id
```

Supported attributes:

| Attribute    | Type           | Required               | Description |
|--------------|----------------|------------------------|-------------|
| `project_id` | integer/string | **{check-circle}** Yes | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](rest/index.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user. |
| `id`         | integer        | **{check-circle}** Yes | The `id` of a secure file. |

Example request:

```shell
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/1/secure_files/1"
```

Example response:

```json
{
    "id": 1,
    "name": "myfile.jks",
    "checksum": "16630b189ab34b2e3504f4758e1054d2e478deda510b2b08cc0ef38d12e80aac",
    "checksum_algorithm": "sha256",
    "created_at": "2022-02-22T22:22:22.222Z",
    "expires_at": null,
    "metadata": null
}
```

## Create secure file

Create a new secure file.

```plaintext
POST /projects/:project_id/secure_files
```

Supported attributes:

| Attribute       | Type           | Required               | Description |
|-----------------|----------------|------------------------|-------------|
| `project_id`    | integer/string | **{check-circle}** Yes | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](rest/index.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user. |
| `name`          | string         | **{check-circle}** Yes | The `name` of the file being uploaded. The filename must be unique within the project. |
| `file`          | file           | **{check-circle}** Yes | The `file` being uploaded (5 MB limit). |

Example request:

```shell
curl --request POST --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" \
     "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/1/secure_files"  --form "name=myfile.jks" --form "file=@/path/to/file/myfile.jks"
```

Example response:

```json
{
    "id": 1,
    "name": "myfile.jks",
    "checksum": "16630b189ab34b2e3504f4758e1054d2e478deda510b2b08cc0ef38d12e80aac",
    "checksum_algorithm": "sha256",
    "created_at": "2022-02-22T22:22:22.222Z",
    "expires_at": null,
    "metadata": null
}
```

## Download secure file

Download the contents of a project's secure file.

```plaintext
GET /projects/:project_id/secure_files/:id/download
```

Supported attributes:

| Attribute    | Type           | Required               | Description |
|--------------|----------------|------------------------|-------------|
| `project_id` | integer/string | **{check-circle}** Yes | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](rest/index.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user. |
| `id`         | integer        | **{check-circle}** Yes | The `id` of a secure file. |

Example request:

```shell
curl --request GET --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/1/secure_files/1/download --output myfile.jks
```

## Remove secure file

Remove a project's secure file.

```plaintext
DELETE /projects/:project_id/secure_files/:id
```

Supported attributes:

| Attribute    | Type           | Required               | Description |
|--------------|----------------|------------------------|-------------|
| `project_id` | integer/string | **{check-circle}** Yes | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](rest/index.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user. |
| `id`         | integer        | **{check-circle}** Yes | The `id` of a secure file. |

Example request:

```shell
curl --request DELETE --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/1/secure_files/1"
```

Commit message:

Adding a common Mobile DevOps documentation header

doc/api/secure_files.md, after:

---
stage: Verify
group: Pipeline Security
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
type: reference, api
---

# Project-level Secure Files API **(FREE)**

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/78227) in GitLab 14.8 [with a flag](../administration/feature_flags.md) named `ci_secure_files`. Disabled by default.
> - [Generally available](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/350748) in GitLab 15.7. Feature flag `ci_secure_files` removed.

This feature is part of [Mobile DevOps](../ci/mobile_devops.md) developed by [GitLab Incubation Engineering](https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/engineering/incubation/).
The feature is still in development, but you can:

- [Request a feature](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/incubation-engineering/mobile-devops/feedback/-/issues/new?issuable_template=feature_request).
- [Report a bug](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/incubation-engineering/mobile-devops/feedback/-/issues/new?issuable_template=report_bug).
- [Share feedback](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/incubation-engineering/mobile-devops/feedback/-/issues/new?issuable_template=general_feedback).

You can securely store up to 100 files for use in CI/CD pipelines as secure files. These files are stored securely outside of your project's repository and are not version controlled. It is safe to store sensitive information in these files. Secure files support both plain text and binary file types but must be 5 MB or less.

## List project secure files

Get list of secure files in a project.

```plaintext
GET /projects/:project_id/secure_files
```

Supported attributes:

| Attribute    | Type           | Required               | Description |
|--------------|----------------|------------------------|-------------|
| `project_id` | integer/string | **{check-circle}** Yes | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](rest/index.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user. |

Example request:

```shell
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/1/secure_files"
```

Example response:

```json
[
    {
        "id": 1,
        "name": "myfile.jks",
        "checksum": "16630b189ab34b2e3504f4758e1054d2e478deda510b2b08cc0ef38d12e80aac",
        "checksum_algorithm": "sha256",
        "created_at": "2022-02-22T22:22:22.222Z",
        "expires_at": null,
        "metadata": null
    },
    {
        "id": 2,
        "name": "myfile.cer",
        "checksum": "16630b189ab34b2e3504f4758e1054d2e478deda510b2b08cc0ef38d12e80aa2",
        "checksum_algorithm": "sha256",
        "created_at": "2022-02-22T22:22:22.222Z",
        "expires_at": "2022-09-21T14:56:00.000Z",
        "metadata": {
            "id":"75949910542696343243264405377658443914",
            "issuer": {
                "C":"US",
                "O":"Apple Inc.",
                "CN":"Apple Worldwide Developer Relations Certification Authority",
                "OU":"G3"
            },
            "subject": {
                "C":"US",
                "O":"Organization Name",
                "CN":"Apple Distribution: Organization Name (ABC123XYZ)",
                "OU":"ABC123XYZ",
                "UID":"ABC123XYZ"
            },
            "expires_at":"2022-09-21T14:56:00.000Z"
        }
    }
]
```

## Show secure file details

Get the details of a specific secure file in a project.

```plaintext
GET /projects/:project_id/secure_files/:id
```

Supported attributes:

| Attribute    | Type           | Required               | Description |
|--------------|----------------|------------------------|-------------|
| `project_id` | integer/string | **{check-circle}** Yes | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](rest/index.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user. |
| `id`         | integer        | **{check-circle}** Yes | The `id` of a secure file. |

Example request:

```shell
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/1/secure_files/1"
```

Example response:

```json
{
    "id": 1,
    "name": "myfile.jks",
    "checksum": "16630b189ab34b2e3504f4758e1054d2e478deda510b2b08cc0ef38d12e80aac",
    "checksum_algorithm": "sha256",
    "created_at": "2022-02-22T22:22:22.222Z",
    "expires_at": null,
    "metadata": null
}
```

## Create secure file

Create a new secure file.

```plaintext
POST /projects/:project_id/secure_files
```

Supported attributes:

| Attribute       | Type           | Required               | Description |
|-----------------|----------------|------------------------|-------------|
| `project_id`    | integer/string | **{check-circle}** Yes | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](rest/index.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user. |
| `name`          | string         | **{check-circle}** Yes | The `name` of the file being uploaded. The filename must be unique within the project. |
| `file`          | file           | **{check-circle}** Yes | The `file` being uploaded (5 MB limit). |

Example request:

```shell
curl --request POST --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" \
     "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/1/secure_files"  --form "name=myfile.jks" --form "file=@/path/to/file/myfile.jks"
```

Example response:

```json
{
    "id": 1,
    "name": "myfile.jks",
    "checksum": "16630b189ab34b2e3504f4758e1054d2e478deda510b2b08cc0ef38d12e80aac",
    "checksum_algorithm": "sha256",
    "created_at": "2022-02-22T22:22:22.222Z",
    "expires_at": null,
    "metadata": null
}
```

## Download secure file

Download the contents of a project's secure file.

```plaintext
GET /projects/:project_id/secure_files/:id/download
```

Supported attributes:

| Attribute    | Type           | Required               | Description |
|--------------|----------------|------------------------|-------------|
| `project_id` | integer/string | **{check-circle}** Yes | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](rest/index.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user. |
| `id`         | integer        | **{check-circle}** Yes | The `id` of a secure file. |

Example request:

```shell
curl --request GET --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/1/secure_files/1/download --output myfile.jks
```

## Remove secure file

Remove a project's secure file.

```plaintext
DELETE /projects/:project_id/secure_files/:id
```

Supported attributes:

| Attribute    | Type           | Required               | Description |
|--------------|----------------|------------------------|-------------|
| `project_id` | integer/string | **{check-circle}** Yes | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](rest/index.md#namespaced-path-encoding) owned by the authenticated user. |
| `id`         | integer        | **{check-circle}** Yes | The `id` of a secure file. |

Example request:

```shell
curl --request DELETE --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/1/secure_files/1"
```
