doc/user/award_emojis.md, before:

---
stage: Plan
group: Project Management
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
---

# Award emojis **(FREE)**

When you're collaborating online, you get fewer opportunities for high-fives
and thumbs-ups. Emojis can be awarded to [issues](project/issues/index.md), [merge requests](project/merge_requests/index.md),
[snippets](snippets.md), and anywhere you can have a thread.

![Award emoji](img/award_emoji_select_v14_6.png)

Award emojis make it much easier to give and receive feedback without a long
comment thread.

For information on the relevant API, see [Award Emoji API](../api/award_emoji.md).

## Sort issues and merge requests on vote count

You can quickly sort issues and merge requests by the number of votes ("thumbs up" and "thumbs down" emoji) they
have received. The sort options can be found in the dropdown list as "Most
popular" and "Least popular".

![Votes sort options](img/award_emoji_votes_sort_options.png)

The total number of votes is not summed up. An issue with 18 upvotes and 5
downvotes is considered more popular than an issue with 17 upvotes and no
downvotes.

## Award emojis for comments

Award emojis can also be applied to individual comments when you want to
celebrate an accomplishment or agree with an opinion.

To add an award emoji:

1. In the upper-right corner of the comment, select the smile (**{slight-smile}**).
1. Select an emoji from the dropdown list.

To remove an award emoji, select the emoji again.

## Custom emojis

You can upload custom emojis to a GitLab instance with the GraphQL API.
For more information, see [Use custom emojis with GraphQL](../api/graphql/custom_emoji.md).

Custom emojis don't show in the emoji picker.
To use them in a text box, type the filename without the extension and surrounded by colons.
For example, for a file named `thank-you.png`, type `:thank-you:`.

For a list of custom emojis available for GitLab.com, see
[the `custom_emoji` project](https://gitlab.com/custom_emoji/custom_emoji/-/tree/main/img).

Commit message:

Add emoji awards for work item
Add emoji awards widget for the work item

Changelog: added
EE: true

doc/user/award_emojis.md, after:

---
stage: Plan
group: Project Management
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
---

# Award emojis **(FREE)**

> Awarding emojis to work items (such as tasks, objectives, and key results) [introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/393599) in GitLab 16.0.

When you're collaborating online, you get fewer opportunities for high-fives
and thumbs-ups. Add award emojis to:

- [Issues](project/issues/index.md).
- [Tasks](tasks.md).
- [Merge requests](project/merge_requests/index.md),
[snippets](snippets.md).
- [Epics](../user/group/epics/index.md).
- [Objectives and key results](okrs.md).
- Anywhere else you can have a comment thread.

![Award emoji](img/award_emoji_select_v14_6.png)

Award emojis make it much easier to give and receive feedback without a long
comment thread.

For information on the relevant API, see [Award Emoji API](../api/award_emoji.md).

## Sort issues and merge requests on vote count

You can quickly sort issues and merge requests by the number of votes ("thumbs up" and "thumbs down" emoji) they
have received. The sort options can be found in the dropdown list as "Most
popular" and "Least popular".

![Votes sort options](img/award_emoji_votes_sort_options.png)

The total number of votes is not summed up. An issue with 18 upvotes and 5
downvotes is considered more popular than an issue with 17 upvotes and no
downvotes.

## Award emojis for comments

Award emojis can also be applied to individual comments when you want to
celebrate an accomplishment or agree with an opinion.

To add an award emoji:

1. In the upper-right corner of the comment, select the smile (**{slight-smile}**).
1. Select an emoji from the dropdown list.

To remove an award emoji, select the emoji again.

## Custom emojis

You can upload custom emojis to a GitLab instance with the GraphQL API.
For more information, see [Use custom emojis with GraphQL](../api/graphql/custom_emoji.md).

Custom emojis don't show in the emoji picker.
To use them in a text box, type the filename without the extension and surrounded by colons.
For example, for a file named `thank-you.png`, type `:thank-you:`.

For a list of custom emojis available for GitLab.com, see
[the `custom_emoji` project](https://gitlab.com/custom_emoji/custom_emoji/-/tree/main/img).
