doc/subscriptions/customers_portal.md, before:

---
stage: Fulfillment
group: Purchase
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
---

# The Customers Portal

For some management tasks for your subscription and account, you use the Customers Portal.

The Customers Portal is available to customers who purchased their
subscription from GitLab. If you made your purchase through a partner or
reseller, contact them directly for assistance with your subscription.

You can also specifically manage your [GitLab SaaS subscription](gitlab_com/index.md)
or [self-managed subscription](self_managed/index.md).

## Change account owner information

Account owner personal details are used on invoices. The account owner email address is used for the Customers Portal legacy login and license-related email.

If you have registered a Customers Portal account through a GitLab.com account, the GitLab.com account is used for login.

To change account owner information, including name, billing address, and email address:

1. Log in to the [Customers Portal](https://customers.gitlab.com/customers/sign_in).
1. Select **My account > Account details**.
1. Expand the **Personal details** section.
1. Edit the personal details.
1. Select **Save changes**.

If you want to transfer ownership of the Customers Portal account
to another person, after you enter that person's personal details, you must also:

- [Change the Customers Portal account password](#change-customers-portal-account-password).
- [Change the linked GitLab.com account](#change-the-linked-account), if you have one linked.

## Change your company details

To change your company details, including company name and VAT number:

1. Log in to the [Customers Portal](https://customers.gitlab.com/customers/sign_in).
1. Select **My account > Account details**.
1. Expand the **Company details** section.
1. Edit the company details.
1. Select **Save changes**.

## Change your payment method

Purchases in the Customers Portal require a credit card on record as a payment method. You can add
multiple credit cards to your account, so that purchases for different products are charged to the
correct card.

If you would like to use an alternative method to pay, please
[contact our Sales team](https://about.gitlab.com/sales/).

To change your payment method:

1. Log in to the [Customers Portal](https://customers.gitlab.com/customers/sign_in).
1. Select **My account > Payment methods**.
1. **Edit** an existing payment method's information or **Add new payment method**.
1. Select **Save Changes**.

### Set a default payment method

Automatic renewal of a subscription is charged to your default payment method. To mark a payment
method as the default:

1. Log in to the [Customers Portal](https://customers.gitlab.com/customers/sign_in).
1. Select **My account > Payment methods**.
1. **Edit** the selected payment method and check the **Make default payment method** checkbox.
1. Select **Save Changes**.

## Link a GitLab.com account

Follow this guideline if you have a legacy Customers Portal account and use an email and password to log in.

To link a GitLab.com account to your Customers Portal account:

1. Log in to the [Customers Portal](https://customers.gitlab.com/customers/sign_in?legacy=true) using email and password.
1. On the Customers Portal page, select **My account > Account details**.
1. Under **Your GitLab.com account**, select **Link account**.
1. Log in to the [GitLab.com](https://gitlab.com/users/sign_in) account you want to link to the Customers Portal account.

## Change the linked account

Customers are required to use their GitLab.com account to register for a new Customers Portal account.

If you have a legacy Customers Portal account that is not linked to a GitLab.com account, you may still [sign in](https://customers.gitlab.com/customers/sign_in?legacy=true) using an email and password. However, you should [create](https://gitlab.com/users/sign_up) and [link a GitLab.com account](#change-the-linked-account) to ensure continued access to the Customers Portal.

Customers of resellers do not have access to this portal and should contact their reseller for any
changes to their subscription.

To change the GitLab.com account linked to your Customers Portal account:

1. Log in to the [Customers Portal](https://customers.gitlab.com/customers/sign_in).
1. In a separate browser tab, go to [GitLab.com](https://gitlab.com/users/sign_in) and ensure you are not logged in.
1. On the Customers Portal page, select **My account > Account details**.
1. Under **Your GitLab.com account**, select **Change linked account**.
1. Log in to the [GitLab.com](https://gitlab.com/users/sign_in) account you want to link to the Customers Portal account.

## Change Customers Portal account password

To change the password for this customers portal account:

1. Log in to the [Customers Portal](https://customers.gitlab.com/customers/sign_in).
1. Select the **My account** dropdown list and select **Account details**.
1. Make the required changes to the **Your password** section.
1. Select **Save changes**.

Commit message:

Update Docs in prep for Reseller Customer access to Customers Portal

doc/subscriptions/customers_portal.md, after:

---
stage: Fulfillment
group: Purchase
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
---

# The Customers Portal

For some management tasks for your subscription and account, you use the Customers Portal.

If you made your purchase through an authorized reseller, you must contact them directly to make changes to your subscription (your subscriptions are read-only).

You can also specifically manage your [GitLab SaaS subscription](gitlab_com/index.md)
or [self-managed subscription](self_managed/index.md).

## Change account owner information

Account owner personal details are used on invoices. The account owner email address is used for the Customers Portal legacy login and license-related email.

If you have registered a Customers Portal account through a GitLab.com account, the GitLab.com account is used for login.

To change account owner information, including name, billing address, and email address:

1. Log in to the [Customers Portal](https://customers.gitlab.com/customers/sign_in).
1. Select **My account > Account details**.
1. Expand the **Personal details** section.
1. Edit the personal details.
1. Select **Save changes**.

If you want to transfer ownership of the Customers Portal account
to another person, after you enter that person's personal details, you must also:

- [Change the Customers Portal account password](#change-customers-portal-account-password).
- [Change the linked GitLab.com account](#change-the-linked-account), if you have one linked.

## Change your company details

To change your company details, including company name and VAT number:

1. Log in to the [Customers Portal](https://customers.gitlab.com/customers/sign_in).
1. Select **My account > Account details**.
1. Expand the **Company details** section.
1. Edit the company details.
1. Select **Save changes**.

## Change your payment method

Purchases in the Customers Portal require a credit card on record as a payment method. You can add
multiple credit cards to your account, so that purchases for different products are charged to the
correct card.

If you would like to use an alternative method to pay, please
[contact our Sales team](https://about.gitlab.com/sales/).

To change your payment method:

1. Log in to the [Customers Portal](https://customers.gitlab.com/customers/sign_in).
1. Select **My account > Payment methods**.
1. **Edit** an existing payment method's information or **Add new payment method**.
1. Select **Save Changes**.

### Set a default payment method

Automatic renewal of a subscription is charged to your default payment method. To mark a payment
method as the default:

1. Log in to the [Customers Portal](https://customers.gitlab.com/customers/sign_in).
1. Select **My account > Payment methods**.
1. **Edit** the selected payment method and check the **Make default payment method** checkbox.
1. Select **Save Changes**.

## Link a GitLab.com account

Follow this guideline if you have a legacy Customers Portal account and use an email and password to log in.

To link a GitLab.com account to your Customers Portal account:

1. Log in to the [Customers Portal](https://customers.gitlab.com/customers/sign_in?legacy=true) using email and password.
1. On the Customers Portal page, select **My account > Account details**.
1. Under **Your GitLab.com account**, select **Link account**.
1. Log in to the [GitLab.com](https://gitlab.com/users/sign_in) account you want to link to the Customers Portal account.

## Change the linked account

Customers are required to use their GitLab.com account to register for a new Customers Portal account.

If you have a legacy Customers Portal account that is not linked to a GitLab.com account, you may still [sign in](https://customers.gitlab.com/customers/sign_in?legacy=true) using an email and password. However, you should [create](https://gitlab.com/users/sign_up) and [link a GitLab.com account](#change-the-linked-account) to ensure continued access to the Customers Portal.

To change the GitLab.com account linked to your Customers Portal account:

1. Log in to the [Customers Portal](https://customers.gitlab.com/customers/sign_in).
1. In a separate browser tab, go to [GitLab.com](https://gitlab.com/users/sign_in) and ensure you are not logged in.
1. On the Customers Portal page, select **My account > Account details**.
1. Under **Your GitLab.com account**, select **Change linked account**.
1. Log in to the [GitLab.com](https://gitlab.com/users/sign_in) account you want to link to the Customers Portal account.

## Change Customers Portal account password

To change the password for this customers portal account:

1. Log in to the [Customers Portal](https://customers.gitlab.com/customers/sign_in).
1. Select the **My account** dropdown list and select **Account details**.
1. Make the required changes to the **Your password** section.
1. Select **Save changes**.
