doc/user/profile/achievements.md, before:

---
stage: Data Stores
group: Tenant Scale
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
---

# Achievements (Experiment) **(FREE)**

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/113156) in GitLab 15.10 [with a flag](../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `achievements`. Disabled by default.

FLAG:
On self-managed GitLab, by default this feature is not available. To make it available,
ask an administrator to [enable the feature flag](../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `achievements`.
The feature is not ready for production use.

Achievements are a way to reward users for their activity on GitLab.
As a namespace maintainer or owner, you can create custom achievements for specific contributions, which you can award to or revoke from users based on your criteria.

As a user, you can collect achievements to highlight your contributions to different projects or groups on your profile.
An achievement consists of a name, a description, and an avatar.

![Achievements on user profile page](img/user_profile_achievements_v15_11.png)

This feature is an Experiment.
For more information about planned work, see [epic 9429](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/9429).
Tell us about your use cases by leaving comments in the epic.

## Types of achievement

Programmatically, there is only one way to create, award, revoke, or delete achievements.

Practically, you can differentiate between achievements that are awarded:

- Once and irrevocable. For example, a "First contribution merged" achievement.
- Once and revocable. For example, a "Core team member" achievement.
- Multiple times. For example, a "Contributor of the month" achievement.

## View a user's achievements

You can view a user's achievements on their profile page.

Prerequisites:

- The user profile must be public.
- You must be a member of the namespace awarding the achievement, or the namespace must be public.

To view a user's achievements:

1. Go to the user's profile page.
1. Below the user's avatar, see their achievements.
1. To view details about an achievement, hover over it.
   It displays the following information:

   - Name of the achievement
   - Description of the achievement
   - Date when the achievement was awarded to the user
   - Namespace that awarded the achievement

To retrieve a list of a user's achievements, query the [`user` GraphQL type](../../api/graphql/reference/index.md#user).

```graphql
query {
  user(username: "<username>") {
    userAchievements {
      nodes {
        achievement {
          name
          description
          avatarUrl
          namespace {
            fullPath
            name
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Create an achievement

You can create custom achievements to award for specific contributions.

Prerequisites:

- You must have the Maintainer or Owner role for the namespace.

To create an achievement, call the [`achievementsCreate` GraphQL mutation](../../api/graphql/reference/index.md#mutationachievementscreate).

```graphql
mutation achievementsCreate($file: Upload!) {
  achievementsCreate(
    input: {
      namespaceId: "gid://gitlab/Namespace/<namespace id>",
      name: "<name>",
      description: "<description>",
      avatar: $file}
  ) {
    errors
    achievement {
      id
      name
      description
      avatarUrl
    }
  }
}
```

## Update an achievement

You can change the name, description, and avatar of an achievement at any time.

Prerequisites:

- You must have the Maintainer or Owner role for the namespace.

To update an achievement, call the [`achievementsUpdate` GraphQL mutation](../../api/graphql/reference/index.md#mutationachievementsupdate).

```graphql
mutation achievementsUpdate($file: Upload!) {
  achievementsUpdate(
    input: {
      achievementId: "gid://gitlab/Achievements::Achievement/<achievement id>",
      name: "<new name>",
      description: "<new description>",
      avatar: $file}
  ) {
    errors
    achievement {
      id
      name
      description
      avatarUrl
    }
  }
}
```

## Award an achievement

You can award an achievement to a user to recognize their contributions.
The user receives an email notification when they are awarded an achievement.

Prerequisites:

- You must have the Maintainer or Owner role for the namespace.

To award an achievement to a user, call the [`achievementsAward` GraphQL mutation](../../api/graphql/reference/index.md#mutationachievementsaward).

```graphql
mutation {
  achievementsAward(input: {
    achievementId: "gid://gitlab/Achievements::Achievement/<achievement id>",
    userId: "gid://gitlab/User/<user id>" }) {
    userAchievement {
      id
      achievement {
        id
        name
      }
      user {
        id
        username
      }
    }
    errors
  }
}
```

## Revoke an achievement

You can revoke a user's achievement if you consider the user no longer meets the awarding criteria.

Prerequisites:

- You must have the Maintainer or Owner role for the namespace.

To revoke an achievement, call the [`achievementsRevoke` GraphQL mutation](../../api/graphql/reference/index.md#mutationachievementsrevoke).

```graphql
mutation {
  achievementsRevoke(input: {
    userAchievementId: "gid://gitlab/Achievements::UserAchievement/<user achievement id>" }) {
    userAchievement {
      id
      achievement {
        id
        name
      }
      user {
        id
        username
      }
      revokedAt
    }
    errors
  }
}
```

## Delete an achievement

If you consider you no longer need an achievement, you can delete it.
This will delete all related awarded and revoked instances of the achievement.

Prerequisites:

- You must have the Maintainer or Owner role for the namespace.

To delete an achievement, call the [`achievementsDelete` GraphQL mutation](../../api/graphql/reference/index.md#mutationachievementsdelete).

```graphql
mutation {
  achievementsDelete(input: {
    achievementId: "gid://gitlab/Achievements::Achievement/<achievement id>" }) {
    achievement {
      id
      name
    }
    errors
  }
}
```

## Hide achievements

If you don't want to display achievements on your profile, you can opt out. To do this:

1. On the top bar, in the upper-right corner, select your avatar.
1. Select **Edit profile**.
1. In the **Main settings** section, clear the **Display achievements on your profile** checkbox.
1. Select **Update profile settings**.

Commit message:

Unlink achievement visibility from namespace visibility
Changelog: changed

doc/user/profile/achievements.md, after:

---
stage: Data Stores
group: Tenant Scale
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
---

# Achievements (Experiment) **(FREE)**

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/113156) in GitLab 15.10 [with a flag](../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `achievements`. Disabled by default.

FLAG:
On self-managed GitLab, by default this feature is not available. To make it available,
ask an administrator to [enable the feature flag](../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `achievements`.
The feature is not ready for production use.

Achievements are a way to reward users for their activity on GitLab.
As a namespace maintainer or owner, you can create custom achievements for specific contributions, which you can award to or revoke from users based on your criteria.

As a user, you can collect achievements to highlight your contributions to different projects or groups on your profile.
An achievement consists of a name, a description, and an avatar.

![Achievements on user profile page](img/user_profile_achievements_v15_11.png)

Achievements are considered to be owned by the user. They are visible regardless of the visibility setting of the namespace that created the Achievement.

This feature is an Experiment.
For more information about planned work, see [epic 9429](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/9429).
Tell us about your use cases by leaving comments in the epic.

## Types of achievement

Programmatically, there is only one way to create, award, revoke, or delete achievements.

Practically, you can differentiate between achievements that are awarded:

- Once and irrevocable. For example, a "First contribution merged" achievement.
- Once and revocable. For example, a "Core team member" achievement.
- Multiple times. For example, a "Contributor of the month" achievement.

## View a user's achievements

You can view a user's achievements on their profile page.

Prerequisites:

- The user profile must be public.

To view a user's achievements:

1. Go to the user's profile page.
1. Below the user's avatar, see their achievements.
1. To view details about an achievement, hover over it.
   It displays the following information:

   - Name of the achievement
   - Description of the achievement
   - Date when the achievement was awarded to the user
   - Namespace that awarded the achievement if the user is a member of the namespace or the namespace is public

To retrieve a list of a user's achievements, query the [`user` GraphQL type](../../api/graphql/reference/index.md#user).

```graphql
query {
  user(username: "<username>") {
    userAchievements {
      nodes {
        achievement {
          name
          description
          avatarUrl
          namespace {
            fullPath
            name
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Create an achievement

You can create custom achievements to award for specific contributions.

Prerequisites:

- You must have the Maintainer or Owner role for the namespace.

To create an achievement, call the [`achievementsCreate` GraphQL mutation](../../api/graphql/reference/index.md#mutationachievementscreate).

```graphql
mutation achievementsCreate($file: Upload!) {
  achievementsCreate(
    input: {
      namespaceId: "gid://gitlab/Namespace/<namespace id>",
      name: "<name>",
      description: "<description>",
      avatar: $file}
  ) {
    errors
    achievement {
      id
      name
      description
      avatarUrl
    }
  }
}
```

## Update an achievement

You can change the name, description, and avatar of an achievement at any time.

Prerequisites:

- You must have the Maintainer or Owner role for the namespace.

To update an achievement, call the [`achievementsUpdate` GraphQL mutation](../../api/graphql/reference/index.md#mutationachievementsupdate).

```graphql
mutation achievementsUpdate($file: Upload!) {
  achievementsUpdate(
    input: {
      achievementId: "gid://gitlab/Achievements::Achievement/<achievement id>",
      name: "<new name>",
      description: "<new description>",
      avatar: $file}
  ) {
    errors
    achievement {
      id
      name
      description
      avatarUrl
    }
  }
}
```

## Award an achievement

You can award an achievement to a user to recognize their contributions.
The user receives an email notification when they are awarded an achievement.

Prerequisites:

- You must have the Maintainer or Owner role for the namespace.

To award an achievement to a user, call the [`achievementsAward` GraphQL mutation](../../api/graphql/reference/index.md#mutationachievementsaward).

```graphql
mutation {
  achievementsAward(input: {
    achievementId: "gid://gitlab/Achievements::Achievement/<achievement id>",
    userId: "gid://gitlab/User/<user id>" }) {
    userAchievement {
      id
      achievement {
        id
        name
      }
      user {
        id
        username
      }
    }
    errors
  }
}
```

## Revoke an achievement

You can revoke a user's achievement if you consider the user no longer meets the awarding criteria.

Prerequisites:

- You must have the Maintainer or Owner role for the namespace.

To revoke an achievement, call the [`achievementsRevoke` GraphQL mutation](../../api/graphql/reference/index.md#mutationachievementsrevoke).

```graphql
mutation {
  achievementsRevoke(input: {
    userAchievementId: "gid://gitlab/Achievements::UserAchievement/<user achievement id>" }) {
    userAchievement {
      id
      achievement {
        id
        name
      }
      user {
        id
        username
      }
      revokedAt
    }
    errors
  }
}
```

## Delete an achievement

If you consider you no longer need an achievement, you can delete it.
This will delete all related awarded and revoked instances of the achievement.

Prerequisites:

- You must have the Maintainer or Owner role for the namespace.

To delete an achievement, call the [`achievementsDelete` GraphQL mutation](../../api/graphql/reference/index.md#mutationachievementsdelete).

```graphql
mutation {
  achievementsDelete(input: {
    achievementId: "gid://gitlab/Achievements::Achievement/<achievement id>" }) {
    achievement {
      id
      name
    }
    errors
  }
}
```

## Hide achievements

If you don't want to display achievements on your profile, you can opt out. To do this:

1. On the top bar, in the upper-right corner, select your avatar.
1. Select **Edit profile**.
1. In the **Main settings** section, clear the **Display achievements on your profile** checkbox.
1. Select **Update profile settings**.
