doc/tutorials/build_application.md, before:

---
stage: none
group: Tutorials
info: For assistance with this tutorials page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments-to-other-projects-and-subjects.
---

# Build your application

## Learn about CI/CD pipelines

Use CI/CD pipelines to automatically build, test, and deploy your code.

| Topic | Description | Good for beginners |
|-------|-------------|--------------------|
| [Create and run your first GitLab CI/CD pipeline](../ci/quick_start/index.md) | Create a `.gitlab-ci.yml` file and start a pipeline. | **{star}** |
| <i class="fa fa-youtube-play youtube" aria-hidden="true"></i> [Get started: Learn about CI/CD](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sIegJaLy2ug) (9m 02s) | Learn about the `.gitlab-ci.yml` file and how it's used. | **{star}** |
| [GitLab CI/CD](https://levelup.gitlab.com/courses/continuous-integration-and-delivery-ci-cd-with-gitlab) | Learn about GitLab CI/CD and build a pipeline in this self-paced course. | **{star}** |
| <i class="fa fa-youtube-play youtube" aria-hidden="true"></i> [CI deep dive](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZVUbmVac-m8&list=PL05JrBw4t0KorkxIFgZGnzzxjZRCGROt_&index=27) (22m 51s) | Take a closer look at pipelines and continuous integration concepts. | |
| [Set up CI/CD in the cloud](../ci/examples/index.md#cicd-in-the-cloud) | Learn how to set up CI/CD in different cloud-based environments. | |
| [Find CI/CD examples and templates](../ci/examples/index.md#cicd-examples)  | Use these examples and templates to set up CI/CD for your use case. | |
| <i class="fa fa-youtube-play youtube" aria-hidden="true"></i> [Understand CI/CD rules](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QjQc-zeL16Q) (8m 56s) |  Learn more about how to use CI/CD rules. | |
| [Use Auto DevOps to deploy an application](../topics/autodevops/cloud_deployments/auto_devops_with_gke.md)  | Deploy an application to Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE). | |

## Publish a static website

Use GitLab Pages to publish a static website directly from your project.

| Topic | Description | Good for beginners |
|-------|-------------|--------------------|
| [Create a Pages website from a CI/CD template](../user/project/pages/getting_started/pages_ci_cd_template.md) | Quickly generate a Pages website for your project using a CI/CD template for a popular Static Site Generator (SSG). | **{star}** |
| [Create a Pages website from scratch](../user/project/pages/getting_started/pages_from_scratch.md) | Create all the components of a Pages website from a blank project. | |

Commit message:

Add first draft of advanced pipeline tutorial
Also add crosslink and update spelling rules.

doc/tutorials/build_application.md, after:

---
stage: none
group: Tutorials
info: For assistance with this tutorials page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments-to-other-projects-and-subjects.
---

# Build your application

## Learn about CI/CD pipelines

Use CI/CD pipelines to automatically build, test, and deploy your code.

| Topic | Description | Good for beginners |
|-------|-------------|--------------------|
| [Create and run your first GitLab CI/CD pipeline](../ci/quick_start/index.md) | Create a `.gitlab-ci.yml` file and start a pipeline. | **{star}** |
| [Create a complex pipeline](../ci/quick_start/tutorial.md) | Learn about the most commonly used GitLab CI/CD keywords by building an increasingly complex pipeline. |  |
| <i class="fa fa-youtube-play youtube" aria-hidden="true"></i> [Get started: Learn about CI/CD](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sIegJaLy2ug) (9m 02s) | Learn about the `.gitlab-ci.yml` file and how it's used. | **{star}** |
| [GitLab CI/CD](https://levelup.gitlab.com/courses/continuous-integration-and-delivery-ci-cd-with-gitlab) | Learn about GitLab CI/CD and build a pipeline in this self-paced course. | **{star}** |
| <i class="fa fa-youtube-play youtube" aria-hidden="true"></i> [CI deep dive](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZVUbmVac-m8&list=PL05JrBw4t0KorkxIFgZGnzzxjZRCGROt_&index=27) (22m 51s) | Take a closer look at pipelines and continuous integration concepts. | |
| [Set up CI/CD in the cloud](../ci/examples/index.md#cicd-in-the-cloud) | Learn how to set up CI/CD in different cloud-based environments. | |
| [Find CI/CD examples and templates](../ci/examples/index.md#cicd-examples)  | Use these examples and templates to set up CI/CD for your use case. | |
| <i class="fa fa-youtube-play youtube" aria-hidden="true"></i> [Understand CI/CD rules](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QjQc-zeL16Q) (8m 56s) |  Learn more about how to use CI/CD rules. | |
| [Use Auto DevOps to deploy an application](../topics/autodevops/cloud_deployments/auto_devops_with_gke.md)  | Deploy an application to Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE). | |

## Publish a static website

Use GitLab Pages to publish a static website directly from your project.

| Topic | Description | Good for beginners |
|-------|-------------|--------------------|
| [Create a Pages website from a CI/CD template](../user/project/pages/getting_started/pages_ci_cd_template.md) | Quickly generate a Pages website for your project using a CI/CD template for a popular Static Site Generator (SSG). | **{star}** |
| [Create a Pages website from scratch](../user/project/pages/getting_started/pages_from_scratch.md) | Create all the components of a Pages website from a blank project. | |
