doc/user/compliance/compliance_report/index.md, before:

---
type: reference, howto
stage: Govern
group: Compliance
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
---

# Compliance reports **(ULTIMATE)**

See reports about compliance violations and compliance frameworks for the group.

## Compliance violations report

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/36524) in GitLab 12.8 as Compliance Dashboard.
> - Compliance violation drawer [introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/299357) in GitLab 14.1.
> - [Renamed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/299360) to compliance report in GitLab 14.2.
> - [Replaced](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/5237) by merge request violations in GitLab 14.6 [with a flag](../../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `compliance_violations_report`. Disabled by default.
> - GraphQL API [introduced](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/7222) in GitLab 14.9.
> - [Generally available](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/5237) in GitLab 14.10. [Feature flag `compliance_violations_report`](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/346266) removed.
> - [Renamed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/112111) to compliance violations report in GitLab 15.9.

With compliance violations report, you can see a high-level view of merge request activity for all projects in the group.

When you select a row in the compliance report, a drawer appears that provides:

- The project name and [compliance framework label](../../project/settings/index.md#add-a-compliance-framework-to-a-project),
  if the project has one assigned.
- A link to the merge request that introduced the violation.
- The merge request's branch path in the format `[source] into [target]`.
- A list of users that committed changes to the merge request.
- A list of users that commented on the merge request.
- A list of users that approved the merge request.
- The user that merged the merge request.

### View the compliance violations report for a group

Prerequisites:

- You must be an administrator or have the Owner role for the group.

To view the compliance violations report:

1. On the top bar, select **Main menu > Groups** and find your group.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Security and Compliance > Compliance report**.

You can sort the compliance report on:

- Severity level.
- Type of violation.
- Merge request title.

Select a row to see details of the compliance violation.

#### Severity levels

Each compliance violation has one of the following severities.

<!-- vale gitlab.SubstitutionWarning = NO -->

| Icon                                          | Severity level |
|:----------------------------------------------|:---------------|
| **{severity-critical, 18, gl-fill-red-800}**  | Critical       |
| **{severity-high, 18, gl-fill-red-600}**      | High           |
| **{severity-medium, 18, gl-fill-orange-400}** | Medium         |
| **{severity-low, 18, gl-fill-orange-300}**    | Low            |
| **{severity-info, 18, gl-fill-blue-400}**     | Info           |

<!-- vale gitlab.SubstitutionWarning = YES -->

#### Violation types

From [GitLab 14.10](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/6870), these are the available compliance violations.

| Violation                         | Severity level | Category                                      | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
|:----------------------------------|:---------------|:----------------------------------------------|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Author approved merge request     | High           | [Separation of duties](#separation-of-duties) | Author of the merge request approved their own merge request. For more information, see [Prevent approval by author](../../project/merge_requests/approvals/settings.md#prevent-approval-by-author).                                                   |
| Committers approved merge request | High           | [Separation of duties](#separation-of-duties) | Committers of the merge request approved the merge request they contributed to. For more information, see [Prevent approvals by users who add commits](../../project/merge_requests/approvals/settings.md#prevent-approvals-by-users-who-add-commits). |
| Fewer than two approvals          | High           | [Separation of duties](#separation-of-duties) | Merge request was merged with fewer than two approvals. For more information, see [Merge request approval rules](../../project/merge_requests/approvals/rules.md).                                                                                     |

The following are unavailable compliance violations that are tracked in [epic 5237](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/5237).

<!-- vale gitlab.SubstitutionWarning = NO -->

| Violation                            | Severity level | Category                                                                               | Description                                                                                        |
|:-------------------------------------|:---------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Pipeline failed                      | Medium         | [Pipeline results](../../../ci/pipelines/index.md)                                     | Merge requests pipeline failed and was merged.                                                     |
| Pipeline passed with warnings        | Info           | [Pipeline results](../../../ci/pipelines/index.md)                                     | Merge request pipeline passed with warnings and was merged.                                        |
| Code coverage down more than 10%     | High           | [Code coverage](../../../ci/testing/code_coverage.md#view-code-coverage-results-in-the-mr) | Code coverage report for the merge request indicates a reduction in coverage of more than 10%.     |
| Code coverage down between 5% to 10% | Medium         | [Code coverage](../../../ci/testing/code_coverage.md#view-code-coverage-results-in-the-mr) | Code coverage report for the merge request indicates a reduction in coverage of between 5% to 10%. |
| Code coverage down between 1% to 5%  | Low            | [Code coverage](../../../ci/testing/code_coverage.md#view-code-coverage-results-in-the-mr) | Code coverage report for the merge request indicates a reduction in coverage of between 1% to 5%.  |
| Code coverage down less than 1%      | Info           | [Code coverage](../../../ci/testing/code_coverage.md#view-code-coverage-results-in-the-mr) | Code coverage report for the merge request indicates a reduction in coverage of less than 1%.      |

<!-- vale gitlab.SubstitutionWarning = YES -->

##### Separation of duties

GitLab supports a separation of duties policy between users who create and approve merge requests. Our criteria for the
separation of duties is:

- [A merge request author is **not** allowed to approve their merge request](../../project/merge_requests/approvals/settings.md#prevent-approval-by-author).
- [A merge request committer is **not** allowed to approve a merge request they have added commits to](../../project/merge_requests/approvals/settings.md#prevent-approvals-by-users-who-add-commits).
- [The minimum number of approvals required to merge a merge request is **at least** two](../../project/merge_requests/approvals/rules.md).

### Chain of Custody report

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/213364) in GitLab 13.3.
> - Chain of Custody reports sent using email [introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/342594) in GitLab 15.3 with a flag named `async_chain_of_custody_report`. Disabled by default.
> - [Generally available](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/370100) in GitLab 15.5. Feature flag `async_chain_of_custody_report` removed.
> - Chain of Custody report includes all commits (instead of just merge commits) [introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/267601) in GitLab 15.9 with a flag named `all_commits_compliance_report`. Disabled by default.
> - [Generally available](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/112092) in GitLab 15.9. Feature flag `all_commits_compliance_report` removed.

The Chain of Custody report provides a 1 month trailing window of all commits to a project under the group.

To generate the report for all commits, GitLab:

1. Fetches all projects under the group.
1. For each project, fetches the last 1 month of commits. Each project is capped at 1024 commits. If there are more than
   1024 commits in the 1-month window, they are truncated.
1. Writes the commits to a CSV file. The file is truncated at 15 MB because the report is emailed as an attachment
   (GitLab 15.5 and later).

The report includes:

- Commit SHA.
- Commit author.
- Committer.
- Date committed.
- Group.
- Project.

If the commit has a related merge commit, then the following are also included:

- Merge commit SHA.
- Merge request ID.
- User who merged the merge request.
- Merge date.
- Pipeline ID.
- Merge request approvers.

#### Generate Chain of Custody report

To generate the Chain of Custody report:

1. On the top bar, select **Main menu > Groups** and find your group.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Security and Compliance > Compliance report**.
1. Select **List of all merge commits**.

Depending on your version of GitLab, the Chain of Custody report is either sent through email or available for download.

#### Generate commit-specific Chain of Custody report

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/267629) in GitLab 13.6.
> - Support for including all commits instead of only merge commits [added](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/393446) in GitLab 15.10.

You can generate a commit-specific Chain of Custody report for a given commit SHA. This report provides only the
details for the provided commit SHA.

To generate a commit-specific Chain of Custody report:

1. On the top bar, select **Main menu > Groups** and find your group.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Security and Compliance > Compliance report**.
1. At the top of the compliance report, to the right of **List of all commits**, select the down arrow
   (**{chevron-lg-down}**).
1. Enter the commit SHA, and then select **Export commit custody report**.

Depending on your version of GitLab, the Chain of Custody report is either sent through email or available for download.

Alternatively, use a direct link: `https://gitlab.com/groups/<group-name>/-/security/merge_commit_reports.csv?commit_sha={optional_commit_sha}`,
passing in an optional value to the `commit_sha` query parameter.

## Compliance frameworks report

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/387910) in GitLab 15.10.
> - Support for applying/removing compliance framework [added](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/383209) in GitLab 15.11

With compliance frameworks report, you can see the compliance frameworks that are applied to projects in a group. Each row of the report shows:

- Project name.
- Project path.
- Compliance framework label if the project has one assigned.

The default framework for the group has a **default** badge.

### View the compliance frameworks report for a group

Prerequisites:

- You must be an administrator or have the Owner role for the group.

To view the compliance frameworks report:

1. On the top bar, select **Main menu > Groups** and find your group.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Security & Compliance > Compliance report**.
1. On the page, select the **Frameworks** tab.

### Apply a compliance framework to projects in a group

Prerequisites:

- You must have the Owner role for the group.

To apply a compliance framework to projects in a group:

1. On the top bar, select **Main menu > Groups** and find your group.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Security and Compliance > Compliance report**.
1. On the page, select the **Frameworks** tab.
1. Select one or more projects.
1. From the **Choose one bulk action** dropdown list, select **Apply framework to selected projects**.
1. Select framework to apply.
1. Select **Apply**.

### Remove a compliance framework from projects in a group

Prerequisites:

- You must have the Owner role for the group.

To remove a compliance framework from projects in a group:

1. On the top bar, select **Main menu > Groups** and find your group.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Security and Compliance > Compliance report**.
1. On the page, select the **Frameworks** tab.
1. Select one or more projects.
1. From the **Choose one bulk action** dropdown list, select **Remove framework from selected projects**.
1. Select **Remove**.

#### Filter the compliance frameworks report

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/387911) in GitLab 15.11.

To filter the list of compliance frameworks:

1. On the top bar, select **Main menu > Groups** and find your group.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Security & Compliance > Compliance report**.
1. On the page, select the **Frameworks** tab.
1. In the search field:
   1. Select the attribute you want to filter by.
   1. Select an operator.
   1. Select from the list of options or enter text for the search.
1. Select **Search** (**{search}**).

Repeat this process to filter by multiple attributes.

Commit message:

Add ability  to add/edit compliance frameworks directly from report
* reuse same modals

Changelog: added
EE: true

doc/user/compliance/compliance_report/index.md, after:

---
type: reference, howto
stage: Govern
group: Compliance
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
---

# Compliance reports **(ULTIMATE)**

See reports about compliance violations and compliance frameworks for the group.

## Compliance violations report

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/36524) in GitLab 12.8 as Compliance Dashboard.
> - Compliance violation drawer [introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/299357) in GitLab 14.1.
> - [Renamed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/299360) to compliance report in GitLab 14.2.
> - [Replaced](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/5237) by merge request violations in GitLab 14.6 [with a flag](../../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `compliance_violations_report`. Disabled by default.
> - GraphQL API [introduced](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/7222) in GitLab 14.9.
> - [Generally available](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/5237) in GitLab 14.10. [Feature flag `compliance_violations_report`](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/346266) removed.
> - [Renamed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/112111) to compliance violations report in GitLab 15.9.
> - [Added](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/394950) ability to create/edit compliance frameworks in GitLab 16.0 [with a flag](../../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `manage_compliance_frameworks_modals_refactor`. Disabled by default.

With compliance violations report, you can see a high-level view of merge request activity for all projects in the group.

When you select a row in the compliance report, a drawer appears that provides:

- The project name and [compliance framework label](../../project/settings/index.md#add-a-compliance-framework-to-a-project),
  if the project has one assigned.
- A link to the merge request that introduced the violation.
- The merge request's branch path in the format `[source] into [target]`.
- A list of users that committed changes to the merge request.
- A list of users that commented on the merge request.
- A list of users that approved the merge request.
- The user that merged the merge request.

### View the compliance violations report for a group

Prerequisites:

- You must be an administrator or have the Owner role for the group.

To view the compliance violations report:

1. On the top bar, select **Main menu > Groups** and find your group.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Security and Compliance > Compliance report**.

You can sort the compliance report on:

- Severity level.
- Type of violation.
- Merge request title.

Select a row to see details of the compliance violation.

#### Severity levels

Each compliance violation has one of the following severities.

<!-- vale gitlab.SubstitutionWarning = NO -->

| Icon                                          | Severity level |
|:----------------------------------------------|:---------------|
| **{severity-critical, 18, gl-fill-red-800}**  | Critical       |
| **{severity-high, 18, gl-fill-red-600}**      | High           |
| **{severity-medium, 18, gl-fill-orange-400}** | Medium         |
| **{severity-low, 18, gl-fill-orange-300}**    | Low            |
| **{severity-info, 18, gl-fill-blue-400}**     | Info           |

<!-- vale gitlab.SubstitutionWarning = YES -->

#### Violation types

From [GitLab 14.10](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/6870), these are the available compliance violations.

| Violation                         | Severity level | Category                                      | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
|:----------------------------------|:---------------|:----------------------------------------------|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Author approved merge request     | High           | [Separation of duties](#separation-of-duties) | Author of the merge request approved their own merge request. For more information, see [Prevent approval by author](../../project/merge_requests/approvals/settings.md#prevent-approval-by-author).                                                   |
| Committers approved merge request | High           | [Separation of duties](#separation-of-duties) | Committers of the merge request approved the merge request they contributed to. For more information, see [Prevent approvals by users who add commits](../../project/merge_requests/approvals/settings.md#prevent-approvals-by-users-who-add-commits). |
| Fewer than two approvals          | High           | [Separation of duties](#separation-of-duties) | Merge request was merged with fewer than two approvals. For more information, see [Merge request approval rules](../../project/merge_requests/approvals/rules.md).                                                                                     |

The following are unavailable compliance violations that are tracked in [epic 5237](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/5237).

<!-- vale gitlab.SubstitutionWarning = NO -->

| Violation                            | Severity level | Category                                                                               | Description                                                                                        |
|:-------------------------------------|:---------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Pipeline failed                      | Medium         | [Pipeline results](../../../ci/pipelines/index.md)                                     | Merge requests pipeline failed and was merged.                                                     |
| Pipeline passed with warnings        | Info           | [Pipeline results](../../../ci/pipelines/index.md)                                     | Merge request pipeline passed with warnings and was merged.                                        |
| Code coverage down more than 10%     | High           | [Code coverage](../../../ci/testing/code_coverage.md#view-code-coverage-results-in-the-mr) | Code coverage report for the merge request indicates a reduction in coverage of more than 10%.     |
| Code coverage down between 5% to 10% | Medium         | [Code coverage](../../../ci/testing/code_coverage.md#view-code-coverage-results-in-the-mr) | Code coverage report for the merge request indicates a reduction in coverage of between 5% to 10%. |
| Code coverage down between 1% to 5%  | Low            | [Code coverage](../../../ci/testing/code_coverage.md#view-code-coverage-results-in-the-mr) | Code coverage report for the merge request indicates a reduction in coverage of between 1% to 5%.  |
| Code coverage down less than 1%      | Info           | [Code coverage](../../../ci/testing/code_coverage.md#view-code-coverage-results-in-the-mr) | Code coverage report for the merge request indicates a reduction in coverage of less than 1%.      |

<!-- vale gitlab.SubstitutionWarning = YES -->

##### Separation of duties

GitLab supports a separation of duties policy between users who create and approve merge requests. Our criteria for the
separation of duties is:

- [A merge request author is **not** allowed to approve their merge request](../../project/merge_requests/approvals/settings.md#prevent-approval-by-author).
- [A merge request committer is **not** allowed to approve a merge request they have added commits to](../../project/merge_requests/approvals/settings.md#prevent-approvals-by-users-who-add-commits).
- [The minimum number of approvals required to merge a merge request is **at least** two](../../project/merge_requests/approvals/rules.md).

### Chain of Custody report

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/213364) in GitLab 13.3.
> - Chain of Custody reports sent using email [introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/342594) in GitLab 15.3 with a flag named `async_chain_of_custody_report`. Disabled by default.
> - [Generally available](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/370100) in GitLab 15.5. Feature flag `async_chain_of_custody_report` removed.
> - Chain of Custody report includes all commits (instead of just merge commits) [introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/267601) in GitLab 15.9 with a flag named `all_commits_compliance_report`. Disabled by default.
> - [Generally available](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/112092) in GitLab 15.9. Feature flag `all_commits_compliance_report` removed.

The Chain of Custody report provides a 1 month trailing window of all commits to a project under the group.

To generate the report for all commits, GitLab:

1. Fetches all projects under the group.
1. For each project, fetches the last 1 month of commits. Each project is capped at 1024 commits. If there are more than
   1024 commits in the 1-month window, they are truncated.
1. Writes the commits to a CSV file. The file is truncated at 15 MB because the report is emailed as an attachment
   (GitLab 15.5 and later).

The report includes:

- Commit SHA.
- Commit author.
- Committer.
- Date committed.
- Group.
- Project.

If the commit has a related merge commit, then the following are also included:

- Merge commit SHA.
- Merge request ID.
- User who merged the merge request.
- Merge date.
- Pipeline ID.
- Merge request approvers.

#### Generate Chain of Custody report

To generate the Chain of Custody report:

1. On the top bar, select **Main menu > Groups** and find your group.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Security and Compliance > Compliance report**.
1. Select **List of all merge commits**.

Depending on your version of GitLab, the Chain of Custody report is either sent through email or available for download.

#### Generate commit-specific Chain of Custody report

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/267629) in GitLab 13.6.
> - Support for including all commits instead of only merge commits [added](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/393446) in GitLab 15.10.

You can generate a commit-specific Chain of Custody report for a given commit SHA. This report provides only the
details for the provided commit SHA.

To generate a commit-specific Chain of Custody report:

1. On the top bar, select **Main menu > Groups** and find your group.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Security and Compliance > Compliance report**.
1. At the top of the compliance report, to the right of **List of all commits**, select the down arrow
   (**{chevron-lg-down}**).
1. Enter the commit SHA, and then select **Export commit custody report**.

Depending on your version of GitLab, the Chain of Custody report is either sent through email or available for download.

Alternatively, use a direct link: `https://gitlab.com/groups/<group-name>/-/security/merge_commit_reports.csv?commit_sha={optional_commit_sha}`,
passing in an optional value to the `commit_sha` query parameter.

## Compliance frameworks report

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/387910) in GitLab 15.10.
> - Support for applying/removing compliance framework [added](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/383209) in GitLab 15.11

With compliance frameworks report, you can see the compliance frameworks that are applied to projects in a group. Each row of the report shows:

- Project name.
- Project path.
- Compliance framework label if the project has one assigned.

The default framework for the group has a **default** badge.

### View the compliance frameworks report for a group

Prerequisites:

- You must be an administrator or have the Owner role for the group.

To view the compliance frameworks report:

1. On the top bar, select **Main menu > Groups** and find your group.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Security & Compliance > Compliance report**.
1. On the page, select the **Frameworks** tab.

### Apply a compliance framework to projects in a group

Prerequisites:

- You must have the Owner role for the group.

To apply a compliance framework to projects in a group:

1. On the top bar, select **Main menu > Groups** and find your group.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Security and Compliance > Compliance report**.
1. On the page, select the **Frameworks** tab.
1. Select one or more projects.
1. From the **Choose one bulk action** dropdown list, select **Apply framework to selected projects**.
1. Select framework to apply.
1. Select **Apply**.

### Remove a compliance framework from projects in a group

Prerequisites:

- You must have the Owner role for the group.

To remove a compliance framework from projects in a group:

1. On the top bar, select **Main menu > Groups** and find your group.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Security and Compliance > Compliance report**.
1. On the page, select the **Frameworks** tab.
1. Select one or more projects.
1. From the **Choose one bulk action** dropdown list, select **Remove framework from selected projects**.
1. Select **Remove**.

#### Filter the compliance frameworks report

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/387911) in GitLab 15.11.

To filter the list of compliance frameworks:

1. On the top bar, select **Main menu > Groups** and find your group.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Security & Compliance > Compliance report**.
1. On the page, select the **Frameworks** tab.
1. In the search field:
   1. Select the attribute you want to filter by.
   1. Select an operator.
   1. Select from the list of options or enter text for the search.
1. Select **Search** (**{search}**).

Repeat this process to filter by multiple attributes.
