doc/user/application_security/secret_detection/post_processing.md, before:

---
stage: Secure
group: Static Analysis
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
---

# Secret Detection post-processing and revocation **(ULTIMATE)**

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/4639) in GitLab 13.6.
> - [Disabled by default for GitLab personal access tokens](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/371658) in GitLab 15.6 [with a flag](../../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `gitlab_pat_auto_revocation`. Available to GitLab.com only.
> - [Enabled by default for GitLab personal access tokens](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/371658) in GitLab 15.9

GitLab.com and self-managed supports running post-processing hooks after detecting a secret. These
hooks can perform actions, like notifying the vendor that issued the secret.
The vendor can then confirm the credentials and take remediation actions, like:

- Revoking a secret.
- Reissuing a secret.
- Notifying the creator of the secret.

GitLab supports post-processing for the following vendors and secrets:

| Vendor | Secret | GitLab.com | Self-managed |
| ----- | --- | --- | --- |
| GitLab | [Personal access tokens](../../profile/personal_access_tokens.md) | ✅ | ✅ 15.9 and later |
| Amazon Web Services (AWS) | [IAM access keys](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_credentials_access-keys.html) | ✅ | ⚙ |

**Component legend**

- ✅ - Available by default
- ⚙ - Requires manual integration using a [Token Revocation API](../../../development/sec/token_revocation_api.md)

## Feature availability

> [Enabled for non-default branches](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/299212) in GitLab 15.11.

Credentials are only post-processed when Secret Detection finds them:

- In public projects, because publicly exposed credentials pose an increased threat. Expansion to private projects is considered in [issue 391379](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/391379).
- In projects with GitLab Ultimate, for technical reasons. Expansion to all tiers is tracked in [issue 391763](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/391763).

## Partner program for leaked-credential notifications

GitLab notifies partners when credentials they issue are leaked in public repositories on GitLab.com.
If you operate a cloud or SaaS product and you're interested in receiving these notifications, learn more in [epic 4944](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/4944).
Partners must [implement a revocation receiver service](#implement-a-revocation-receiver-service),
which is called by the Token Revocation API.

### Implement a revocation receiver service

A revocation receiver service integrates with a GitLab instance's Token Revocation API to receive and respond
to leaked token revocation requests. The service should be a publicly accessible HTTP API that is
idempotent and rate-limited. Requests to your service from the Token Revocation API look similar to the example
below:

```plaintext
POST / HTTP/2
Accept: */*
Content-Type: application/json
X-Gitlab-Token: MYSECRETTOKEN

[
  {"type": "my_api_token", "token":"XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX","url": "https://example.com/some-repo/~/raw/abcdefghijklmnop/compromisedfile1.java"}
]
```

In this example, Secret Detection has determined that an instance of `my_api_token` has been leaked. The
value of the token is provided to you, in addition to a publicly accessible URL to the raw content of the
file containing the leaked token.

## High-level architecture

This diagram describes how a post-processing hook revokes a secret in the GitLab application:

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    autonumber
    GitLab Rails-->+GitLab Rails: gl-secret-detection-report.json
    GitLab Rails->>+Sidekiq: StoreScansService
    Sidekiq-->+Sidekiq: ScanSecurityReportSecretsWorker
    Sidekiq-->+Token Revocation API: GET revocable keys types
    Token Revocation API-->>-Sidekiq: OK
    Sidekiq->>+Token Revocation API: POST revoke revocable keys
    Token Revocation API-->>-Sidekiq: ACCEPTED
    Token Revocation API-->>+Receiver Service: revoke revocable keys
    Receiver Service-->>+Token Revocation API: ACCEPTED
```

1. A pipeline with a Secret Detection job completes, producing a scan report (**1**).
1. The report is processed (**2**) by a service class, which schedules an asynchronous worker if token revocation is possible.
1. The asynchronous worker (**3**) communicates with an externally deployed HTTP service
   (**4** and **5**) to determine which kinds of secrets can be automatically revoked.
1. The worker sends (**6** and **7**) the list of detected secrets which the Token Revocation API is able to
   revoke.
1. The Token Revocation API sends (**8** and **9**) each revocable token to their respective vendor's [receiver service](#implement-a-revocation-receiver-service).

See the [Token Revocation API](../../../development/sec/token_revocation_api.md) documentation for more
information.

Commit message:

Rename secret "post-processing" to "automatic response"

doc/user/application_security/secret_detection/post_processing.md, after:

---
stage: Secure
group: Static Analysis
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
---

# Automatic response to leaked secrets **(ULTIMATE)**

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/4639) in GitLab 13.6.

GitLab Secret Detection automatically responds when it finds certain types of leaked secrets.
Automatic responses can:

- Automatically revoke the secret.
- Notify the partner that issued the secret. The partner can then revoke the secret, notify its owner, or otherwise protect against abuse.

## Supported secret types and actions

GitLab supports automatic response for the following types of secrets:

| Secret type | Action taken | Supported on GitLab.com | Supported in self-managed |
| ----- | --- | --- | --- |
| GitLab [Personal access tokens](../../profile/personal_access_tokens.md) | Immediately revoke token, send email to owner | ✅ | ✅ [15.9 and later](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/371658) |
| Amazon Web Services (AWS) [IAM access keys](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_credentials_access-keys.html) | Notify AWS | ✅ | ⚙ |

**Component legend**

- ✅ - Available by default
- ⚙ - Requires manual integration using a [Token Revocation API](../../../development/sec/token_revocation_api.md)

## Feature availability

> [Enabled for non-default branches](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/299212) in GitLab 15.11.

Credentials are only post-processed when Secret Detection finds them:

- In public projects, because publicly exposed credentials pose an increased threat. Expansion to private projects is considered in [issue 391379](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/391379).
- In projects with GitLab Ultimate, for technical reasons. Expansion to all tiers is tracked in [issue 391763](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/391763).

## Partner program for leaked-credential notifications

GitLab notifies partners when credentials they issue are leaked in public repositories on GitLab.com.
If you operate a cloud or SaaS product and you're interested in receiving these notifications, learn more in [epic 4944](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/4944).
Partners must [implement a revocation receiver service](#implement-a-revocation-receiver-service),
which is called by the Token Revocation API.

### Implement a revocation receiver service

A revocation receiver service integrates with a GitLab instance's Token Revocation API to receive and respond
to leaked token revocation requests. The service should be a publicly accessible HTTP API that is
idempotent and rate-limited. Requests to your service from the Token Revocation API look similar to the example
below:

```plaintext
POST / HTTP/2
Accept: */*
Content-Type: application/json
X-Gitlab-Token: MYSECRETTOKEN

[
  {"type": "my_api_token", "token":"XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX","url": "https://example.com/some-repo/~/raw/abcdefghijklmnop/compromisedfile1.java"}
]
```

In this example, Secret Detection has determined that an instance of `my_api_token` has been leaked. The
value of the token is provided to you, in addition to a publicly accessible URL to the raw content of the
file containing the leaked token.

## High-level architecture

This diagram describes how a post-processing hook revokes a secret in the GitLab application:

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    autonumber
    GitLab Rails-->+GitLab Rails: gl-secret-detection-report.json
    GitLab Rails->>+Sidekiq: StoreScansService
    Sidekiq-->+Sidekiq: ScanSecurityReportSecretsWorker
    Sidekiq-->+Token Revocation API: GET revocable keys types
    Token Revocation API-->>-Sidekiq: OK
    Sidekiq->>+Token Revocation API: POST revoke revocable keys
    Token Revocation API-->>-Sidekiq: ACCEPTED
    Token Revocation API-->>+Receiver Service: revoke revocable keys
    Receiver Service-->>+Token Revocation API: ACCEPTED
```

1. A pipeline with a Secret Detection job completes, producing a scan report (**1**).
1. The report is processed (**2**) by a service class, which schedules an asynchronous worker if token revocation is possible.
1. The asynchronous worker (**3**) communicates with an externally deployed HTTP service
   (**4** and **5**) to determine which kinds of secrets can be automatically revoked.
1. The worker sends (**6** and **7**) the list of detected secrets which the Token Revocation API is able to
   revoke.
1. The Token Revocation API sends (**8** and **9**) each revocable token to their respective vendor's [receiver service](#implement-a-revocation-receiver-service).

See the [Token Revocation API](../../../development/sec/token_revocation_api.md) documentation for more
information.
